A new chapter on The Turing Way coworking calls (for the community handbook) (#1257)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: book/website/community-handbook/coworking/coworking-daily.md

(ch-coworking-daily)=
# Daily Coworking Calls

_The Turing Way_ team has been hosting coworking calls almost every day at 11:00 GMT/BST.
These calls are similar to the Collaboration Cafes, but only 1-hour long.
It is not scheduled on the days when there is a Collaboration Cafe already scheduled, the daily coworking call.

Like Collaboration Cafe, we host these calls online using [Zoom](https://www.zoom.us/).
We use the Shut up & Write! the method by providing allocated time, use two 25 minutes long Pomodoro sessions and take two short breaks to chat about our work and exchange what we got done.

This call is hosted by the community member to allow people who are working on certain issues or PRs in _The Turing Way_ to come along and join the community members in their usual working hours.
These calls will be also a good place to clarify doubts about the project, get their PRs reviewed, brainstorm on different ideas together, and stay connected with other members in the community.

> ## Attending an online Collaboration Cafe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Attending an online coworking call
```

Swung by to review because @katoss was looking for the information and couldn't find it. Figured I'd stay and suggest a different heading which I think is just a typo. The link with the information is on line 25 but here it is to make it easier to click: [https://hackmd.io/@malvikasharan/TW-coworking](https://hackmd.io/@malvikasharan/TW-coworking

Author: That is indeed a typo. Thank you for correcting! 🌸

We'll run the following schedule during each call:

| Duration | Activity |
| ---- | -------- |
| Start | 👋 Welcome |
| 5 mins | Introductions and personal goal setting |
| 25 mins | 🍅 1st Pomodoro session |
| 5 mins | ☕️ Break and report out |
| 25 mins | 🍅 2nd Pomodoro session |
| 5 mins | Open discussion and Close 👋 |

The call begins with the team members welcoming the participants, sharing the Code of Conduct, reminding how to participate in the call, and setting the stage for everyone to share what they will be working on.

If there is no new member, we will directly start the [timer](https://cuckoo.team/TW-coworking) for the first Pomodoro.
If everyone is working on an independent task, we will remain in the main room and work silently.
For any discussion or collaborative task that two people of the call are working on, we will create [breakout rooms](#breakout-rooms) for them.

We will take short breaks after each Pomodoro to reflect on what we could get done and what would be the next step.

In contrast to the Collaboration Cafes, the schedule for these daily calls seems more intense with less chance for discussion.

> However, since these calls are attended by fewer participants, it provides more opportunities for informal interactions.

Author: Would you like to capture that in the document, either in the coworking page or landing page?

> However, since these calls are attended by fewer participants, it provides more opportunities for informal interactions.

Author: I edited the coworking-daily file to add the details, and also included your comment there.

For any discussion or collaborative task that two people of the call are working on, we will create [breakout rooms](#breakout-rooms) for them.

If there are new members on the call, one of the members (usually host of the call) will take the new member to a breakout room to show around the project repository and share some tips for getting started.

#### Breaks

We will take short breaks after each Pomodoro to reflect on what we could get done, troubleshoot any error that any attendee might have come across, verbalise our progress and celebrate small successes.

#### If joining this call later

If you join later, you might see people quietly working on their tasks.
You can track the time left before the next break by opening the [shared clock](https://cuckoo.team/TW-coworking) in your browser.
If you know in advance that you'd join later, you can let the host of the call know by either contacting them before the call or leaving a note in the shared document.

#### Coworking with your colleagues

If you would like to set up similar coworking calls for your community, you can reuse the format, template, and materials described in this chapter.

> Practices described is what we use in _The Turing Way_, but there are more ways to run such coworking calls. 

Author: ```suggestion
Practices described here are what we use in _The Turing Way_, but there are more ways to run such coworking calls. 
```

> For example, Naomi Penfold shared more about her coworking format while reviewing this chapter:

Author: ```suggestion
For example, Naomi Penfold shared about her coworking format while reviewing this chapter:
```

> In the co-working calls I have, it's 1:1 and we often spend 20 minutes at the beginning catching up and taking about our progress since last time.
If there is something we want to discuss more intensely, we allocate 30 minutes of our call time to that, for example, one of us asking the other how to troubleshoot something. 
For the time in between, we do a few quiet working sessions (sometimes 25 minutes, sometimes longer).
This is likely a combination of a co-mentoring call and a co-working pomodoro call, and it works well for me.

> You can read more this post, [Online Co-working Partnerships are Community of Practice in Action](https://www.cscce.org/2020/02/04/online-co-working-partnerships-are-community-of-practice-in-action/#more-3009), by Naomi Penfold and Stefanie Butland to learn from their 1:1 coworking format.

Author: ```suggestion
You can read more about Naomi's and Stefanie Butland's 1:1 coworking format in this post: [Online Co-working Partnerships are Community of Practice in Action](https://www.cscce.org/2020/02/04/online-co-working-partnerships-are-community-of-practice-in-action/#more-3009).
```
